Puzzle a quarter is internal also.
Yeah. Nice.
So just record the meeting for For the sake of posterity and the folks who can't make it.
Cool. Should we wait or should we wait All right.
Let's just jump right in. I mean, we met Sasha last week And to dig into the journey and now this is their chance to see where you're at now.
Yeah.
Yeah, I met some people. Last week, which was great. God, was that last week or two weeks ago?
Two weeks ago. Okay, good. I was like, I'm losing time.
Two weeks. Time isn't earth anymore.
Yeah. It's crazy. Yeah.
It's week eight. We're moving.
But for the sake of recording and the few people here, if you didn't meet me last week, my name is Drew Lincoln. I lead some of our partnerships here at Puzzle. Puzzle is modern accounting for early stage startups and founders like yourself.
So I'm going to talk a little bit today about Accounting 101. I have a little presentation I'm going to share if I could share my screen.
And then we'll go from there.
There we go. Everybody see my screen?
All looks good.
Yeah. Awesome. Cool, guys. For sake of legal formatting and all that, I am not an accountant. I am not a CPA.
Let it be known that financial advice should be from somebody else but This is specifically for founders.
Typically, Delaware C Corp startups. And again, not accounting or tax advice, always consult a professional.
Need to throw that out there. So real quick intro. I'm calling you guys from probably not too far away from most of you. I'm in San Francisco, just downtown in our office here.
But I've been in the Bay about 11 plus years. I've been through a founding team at Y Combinator, got acquired by a company called Crossbeam, been through the plug and play tech seller down and Sunnyvale sadly have not been through Techstars, but maybe that's the next next one. And then I started my career at Yelp.
Early on. So high level, this is really what we're going to be talking about, about puzzle and kind of how accounting really works. So I'm moving the zoom Zoom windows all over the place so What do founders really need to know about accounting? So we're going to go over what accounting is, why and when specifically it's important. We're going to see some dates.
This will be very kind of, you know, I I've done this report a few different times and it was a lot different you know a couple weeks ago, I suppose to today for obvious reasons with tax season behind us now and we'll go through kind of some top FAQs from founders
We'll walk through a quick demo of Puzzle. I know some of you are already using it.
I come from a go-to market background, so I have that kind of as a bonus round or any kind of Q&A's Maybe we'll get into that new puzzle signal, Chloe I was talking about.
So who has to do accounting? Everybody, you have to do it.
It's not fun. I get it. But it's one of those things that every company has to do it. So beginning of the year.
If your startup is incorporated as a Delaware C Corp. You will need to file corporate taxes. You might not need to pay taxes, especially at Techstars kind of early stage. You might not you know, pre-revenue.
But you do need to file them, right? So what is accounting?
Again, I'm not an accountant. I did not take accounting classes in college.
I'm curious from the group here, who has taken any accounting classes?
Before. Chris, I knew it.
Andrew, awesome. Yeah, too.
Well, we don't have too many folks, but yeah, that's more than usual, to be honest, actually.
So of course. We didn't learn this in school. I didn't learn this in school unless you're actively going to be an accountant or maybe you're an econ major and you did like single class of accounting. It didn't come up in college that often. So it's really important to understand what encompasses accounting and
These are kind of the three areas when you're thinking about accounting.
And taxes, IRS, we just passed tax day. Very topical for startups and early stage founders, fundraising, valuation.
And then more on the financial planning and analysis, which you'll, you know, if you're going further up market, maybe at that C to Series A, thinking about outsourcing to a CFO or something like that. So all of this is prepared by bookkeepers, but these are the three major
Kind of areas of what accounting really means. So what goes into accounting? You've probably seen a lot of these different logos here. A lot of these folks are our own partners. So whether you have a bank or maybe a payroll or maybe you're a B2B SaaS startup and
Stripe is what you rely on with all things revenue payments.
Cash spend payroll probably not there yet. Customer payments, of course, but maybe you create all your bills through bill.com or ramped. And maybe you're looking at a few of these tools right now.
We implement entirely into all those tools, really where puzzle or anything like puzzle but accounting or general ledger, that is where all of these really inputs live in one place. So it's really important to have, okay, my cache is over there, my spend is over there, my payroll is over here.
It's really vital to be able to Whether you're on spreadsheets or not, that's typically when I'm talking to folks early at this stage that Hey, we're on spreadsheets. That's fine for now. I guess I'm biased to say that's not fine.
But eventually you're going to need some sort of accounting software or a general ledger, something like QuickBooks.
To be able to accommodate not just knowing your financial clarity, but also being able to hire a CPA, hire an accountant, get a bookkeeper further down the road because this is what that accounting will allow you to do is to see that income statement, understand what a balance sheet is, P&L as well, profit and loss.
And a cash flow statement. Also, by the way, guys, if you guys do have any questions, please feel free to throw them in the chat. Happy to go one by one. We'll have a Q&A at the end as well.
Keeping it kind of pretty high level. In terms of what the three financial statements are right pretty self-explanatory, but income. We all like income, income, sales, expenses, anything that comes in monthly The balance sheet, of course, is what you owe versus what you own. So understand that owe versus own.
And then cash flow statement. So any kind of summary of cash in and out is what encompasses those three financial statements.
Cash accrual. Does anyone know the difference in terms of who Well, we can have the differences here right here, but in specific who this might be applicable to.
Cash basis should be applicable to large or small businesses.
Not all at once. Anyone know?
Small businesses. Correct. Chloe, I saw on mute you were about to say it.
Small businesses for cash large businesses for accrual. So you're at this stage, most of you are only going to really be thinking about So what's the difference? Well, you can do both in puzzle, by the way, but cash income expenses are recorded when income is received or expenses are paid. So when cash changes hands, pretty self-explanatory. Approval is when
It's being reported when they're billed and earned, regardless if the money is actually received accrual.
Right. Yes.
I have a question. I've been kind of marking, since we do annual subscriptions, more of accrual basis um And then Martinets and months.
I kind of assumed that would be typical for subscription type businesses.
What do startups typically do? Say SaaS startups With annual subscriptions.
With annual subscriptions, then they typically will do cash. But it's kind of completely up to you. It also depends on what you're I mean, anything else is touching your business so like invoices and any kind of bills or vendor payments. Do you currently use accounting software right now or where you're doing your, I guess your banking and
In payments. Stripe, I'm guessing.
Oh.
You're cutting in and out, but I think you were saying, yeah, we use Stripe for billing. Currently, we are just kind of doing it like out of Excel for now.
Got it. Okay. Yeah. You can change it within puzzle if it's approval or cash, we can do both.
Most early stage startups are cash are you Sounds like you're revenue positive.
Yeah. Excuse me.
Got it. So yeah, accrual is fine. If you're at that point, if you're pre-revenue, then cash is typically where most startups Yeah.
Okay.
It's a good question.
Small, large. So I know you knew that cash accrual yeah Cool. So primary accounting roles. What are all these roles actually mean.
One thing to, you know, the biggest takeaway here in thinking about accounting is Everything about accounting is in the past.
It has already happened. That is why we have a rear view mirror. It's always looking about kind of a history of anything that has touched your finances and within your business. So within the different roles, we have bookkeepers and they're the ones who are focusing on the accounts, categorizing transactions.
They can run payroll. Puzzle does a lot of this automated, especially for early stage startups.
The actual accountant themselves, which you will need eventually does a little bit more higher level focus if you're at Andrew's stage doing more of a cruel counting or GAAP compliance.
And then controller, pretty self-explanatory, but they were responsible for overseeing a lot of the accounting. They control really everything, ensuring the reports are complete and accurate.
Then we focus a little bit more on CFOs. And that's probably further on your series A, series B, I'd say.
You see a lot of folks outsourcing kind of CFO services today, but they're the ones who are more in depth on the strategy for the company financial ops thinking about budget models, where we're spending, where companies are spending, especially when it gets to
A significant raise at the Series A or B or C.
Wrench.
So what does the bookkeeper actually do? Well, they're the ones who are… Really, again, focusing on the categorizing transactions. So let's say you have a bank, a few different bank accounts, maybe a few credit cards categorization, they kind of need to be categorized in different places.
Apollo kind of serves as your like bookkeeper light But they also will serve as paying your bills, running your payroll.
During financial reports, understanding your balance sheet P&L.
Reviewing and file any kind of tax credits, which Puzzle does not do, but we do create a tax package for you. So when the time does come.
You can find an accountant or CPA to do those tax services for you.
Bookkeepers do not file taxes. They don't build financial models. So any kind of budgeting or forecasts, they don't do that.
That's a little bit more on the, again, accountant or CFO side of things.
Any questions so far? Okay. Thanks, guys.
Why is accounting important? Sorry?
You know, amazing. These folks are already CFOs and they know absolutely everything and their taxes are perfect.
And then investors are going to investors are going Thrilled.
Yeah. You guys, their taxes are complete. Exactly. It's all about having your clean clean the books, having your numbers right there So here we're going to talk about well why why it's important, of course. We're going to talk about when things go well and then when things just don't go so well. And we'll talk about important dates and things to
You'll be already prepared for this anyway, because you've got about a year, a little less than the next tax day. But there are some other dates that are closer than you might actually believe.
Top reasons why accounting goes well. If you can automate it, it really helps you obviously improve more money, improving your business. That's obvious. More time improves your business. You guys are all You didn't have to focus on whether or not your books are clean and think about
Your P&L or your balance sheet or being an accountant. Quite frankly, you need to focus on building, talking to your customers ensuring that your product is moving along on your roadmap.
What accounting also allows you to do is have credibility for investors.
Well, you mentioned, you know, trying to pull numbers from different startups and how difficult it is On both ends, right, within the database, but also within any techstar founders being, you know, hey, what are your latest numbers?
And yeah
100%. Like this is a reporting requirement. Techstars has a reporting requirement. You need to submit your financials quarterly for the duration of the life of this business, all your other investors will require it as well. The better you're able to get a handle on this early.
The less awful it'll be because textars won't chase you. Other investors will.
Like other investors
Yeah. Or they or they or if you're not even at that point of being chased, they won't take you seriously, quite frankly. They'll stop chasing you at the end of the day. You'll be wanting to chase them.
But if you can get your books in order. Yeah.
Yeah, if you totally if you have a smaller VC who like doesn't get their financial updates after they've given you a check.
Correct.
Why would they introduce you to follow on investors? Also, a huge sort of onus for a huge us pushing this financials conversation so hard is like in the last 30 days, I've had to sit down literally on the ground with a founder and calculate out the fact that they had 60 days of runway left.
Wow. Wow.
Which they didn't know. Literally on the ground in my living room like papers on the floor and I don't want to do that again.
Yeah. Okay.
You guys are going to know well ahead. It's not going to be 60 days to save the company that's the onus for all of this. I know we've been hounding you with financial stuff. It is really, really life or death.
And it's never been easier to automate a lot of these things so Yeah, that sounds pretty brutal.
I think I was, my first startup, Brex had just come out and it was like great to kind of have this like corporate credit card, but then we started using ramp and then we realized that we were just implementing it onto Excel and, um.
Yeah, we had a runway. We had a runway issue. But at the end of the day, it's about really impressing your investors, but also ensuring burn runway, you know, those numbers off, you know, easily and you can you can access those numbers, not just 15 days after every month from your accountant, but
You can log into Puzzle and access them or your general ledger at any time, right? Obviously hitting company goals is really important And then this is something we talk about but like puzzle was built for the founder, but it allows you to kind of gain that credibility to I'm not just a founder, I'm now a CEO.
Right. Allows you to grow, gives you more credibility and of course more money. So that's all well and good. But here's what things, when things don't go well.
Chloe just gave us an insight into what doesn't go well we right uh can it's all based on history. So, you know, it could be weeks, months of makeup work terrible use of your time.
If it's more on the tax front, and we'll look at different dates that are really important, but massive penalties or noncompliance.
Back to investors in fundraising. This can lower shareholder value. You could lose term sheets and deals because if you're not, you don't have your numbers in order.
I don't want to go the worst route, but fired or run out of payroll this was a hot Payroll stops, runway stops your company folds um fired isn't necessarily but the the way to go but Yeah, this is the dark side of accounting. That's very real.
Right. And even no matter how much almost you've raised so When is encountering important so these are You guys know the April 15th date But as a lot of our on our customer success team here, there are all former CPAs. So I typically ask them, I'm like, so when does like they should start accounting or start really thinking about accounting? Of course, they're like.
They're all CPAs. So they're like yesterday like it's never too early. Day one. It's easier to remember binary receipts, every dollar. You don't want to be on the ground looking for different receipts and finding things It's all automated today.
Any modern general ledger accounting software today has all of these automations within your banks your stripe revenue payments, whatever it is The required dates here, so it depends on your business, but January 31st, if you have 1099s as employees.
That's when you're filing that January 31st. March 1st is any Delaware franchise tax.
Probably most folks already know that. And then April 15th is the general federal and state corporate tax. It can be extended.
Of course, maybe there's a few people who have filed their extension and they still have to do taxes.
But that's typically October 15th.
Demo. Actually, before I get into that, any questions about accounting, accounting 101, anything in here that you guys would like to go back into
Yeah, I was just wondering, how do you sort of like balance platforms out like Puzzle with like accountants that do the filing and all of that stuff will end of year.
Yeah, that's a good question. So there's kind of two I was going to say two pieces to the puzzle. But essentially.
Puzzle serves as right here, your accounting and general ledger. It's kind of your base.
For implementing all of your financial data into one place. It will automate essentially like 98% of what you need to do as a business owner, that extra 2% is when you would outsource to an accountant and a bookkeeper. So that would live then as a service on top
Of puzzle or QuickBooks. Or something like that. So we have a marketplace of 10,000 plus accountants and CPAs that we would recommend based on your goals.
And the type of business you have. But they're all puzzle certified. They use puzzle we kind of have a whole accounting channel.
Thanks.
Yeah. Do you have, does anyone have a CPA or accountant Already. Carla. Yeah.
Are you a CPA accountant or you have already have one?
Bye. Yeah. No, I have one.
Yeah.
Got it. Got it. Yeah, so it kind of depends on them and what they use already, right? They might already use QuickBooks.
Or you say, hey, I'm using puzzle they can use puzzle tool, right?
Another quick question does puzzle like Is it just for US-based companies?
And yep.
Us Incorporated companies. You don't necessarily need to be based here, but US incorporated.
Yeah, we have a lot of companies from all over the world, but they're incorporated in the United States.
Antoine.
It's a variation of that question and it was about like our company is incorporated in france and so We don't.
There's no way we can use puzzle is that right?
Correct. Not right now, unfortunately, but it needs to be a US incorporated business.
Not necessarily Delaware, but just U.S. Incorporated yeah We have a lot of different partners that we partner with that are incorporated partners. So like folks like Stripe Atlas or clerky Or dually are great options.
But happy to, if you're interested in that.
Is that a limitation going to change anytime soon?
Good question. Not in the immediate, probably within this year, I would say. We're focused on a lot of different things with automation and revenue recognition.
The puzzle signal I showed you or emailed you about earlier, but for VCs and accelers, but multi-entity multi-currency, these types of things we're a little more focused on first and foremost um before outside U.S.
Because you can be a, you know, based in Paris and incorporated in the United States and you might work in euros and USD and maybe canadian dollars as well right so we ensure that those folks can and still operate.
Boom.
And so just to be sure the reason why you have that uh US Incorporated is if we file in the US, that's what you cover. If we don't file in the US, you don't cover.
Correct. Yep, thank you.
Thank you.
All right, guys. I am going to… do a quick demo. Can you guys still see my screen?
Looks good.
I'm happy to happy to set up a time with our sales team or myself if you guys would like to do a demo. But this is super high level. This is our demo environment. I'm going to show you just
Typically how people would walk through this and get started. Again, the only prerequisite to use Puzzle is a bank account.
So if you have a Brex account, you have a Mercury account, if you have a B of A account, doesn't matter.
We have integration with all of them. So here I'm going to put myself as a founder.
It might change a little bit. And then I'm going to actually focus on Yeah, here we go.
At this point, I have, maybe I have a Brex credit card. I have two Mercury accounts.
I have Gusto payroll and I have Stripe for all of my tracking of revenue payments.
Within five minutes, Puzzle is going to automate all of your financial numbers in one clean dashboard. This is completely customizable, but typically this is what most of our users who are founders like to see where my cache is my net burn, my runway rate. Here are my two mercury accounts where my cash is focused on.
My net burn. I can see my three month average, my last month total. Of course, my run runway rate, which is nine months, which is like.
Okay, not great. Maybe looking at a little bit of a raise pretty soon or you know finding some cut or maybe I have to focus a little bit more on my net burn or my revenue, of course.
Up and to the right, we like to see that, which is great. And then high level cache activity.
Course, where I can get more of compact summary, detailed consumer where my books have been closed. I can see my P&L.
And then, of course, my balance sheet. If I do want to export this.
Carlo, for your example, you have You can do all your accounting in here.
Do you want to send any of this documentation or you can give your accountant actually puzzle access But like, let's say it's tax package time, you can download this as a PDF or CSV and you can send this directly to your accountant.
Or CPA. Again, anything that touches your finances will live in Puzzle.
We've kind of broken it down into a few different areas. So if it's just high level accounting You can see your general ledger where you just manage You know, anything that is cash basis or accrual basis.
Chart of accounts, any kind of revenue, this would be coming invoices through stripe And then, of course, expenses maybe through ramp or bill.com.
Do you have payroll. Let me set up with gusto or something.
It might live right here. You guys are probably not at that stage yet.
But that's kind of a high level overview of puzzle. Again, we have a customer success manager that will walk you through this. It is a self-service product.
You don't need to be an accountant or CPA to be able to use this and that's purpose-built for founders.
If you do get to that point of needing an accountant, our customer success team will help you.
Find an accountant, but we do have a marketplace of of 10,000 plus CPAs and accountants to help on the bookkeeping and tax services side.
Any questions or anything that caught your eye maybe while I was demoing here that you have a question about.
Or count.
I have a comment. I was Googling if I could use this for You made the blood rush out of my face with the franchise tax being due in March.
Because I have an LLC and I was like, oh, fuck. I Googled it. Mine isn't until June.
Mm-hmm.
I had June 1st of rain and I'm really glad I was right on that.
Good.
But because of that fear, I was Googling puzzles free if you're burning under 5K a month. I'm going to do this for my like dumb little LLC on the side.
Yeah. If you're under 5K, good. Yeah. One, Chloe, I'm glad you're That's okay, June. I'm glad that's true.
And then, yeah, good point. If you're under 5K in expenses, Puzzle is free.
And that's actually, it kind of gets me to next point. I think some people that I met at least last week.
We do have a great partnership with Techstars so any, you know, if you guys do want to get started it is 50% off for our 12-month insights plan.
So that's $50 typically. So that'd be $25 a month Just to get started. So it allows you to get started essentially to do everything that I showed you.
And then let me put in the So listen to chat so you guys can access it.
Oh, saw Antoine. Thanks, Antoine.
And then… This is actually what I was, I sent to you.
In terms of the puzzle signal actually is what I'm at least what we're calling it right now. Essentially, this would be able to uh have a health score for health your portfolio and understanding all of your financial health scores. So how many integrations were connected but high level
How is my business doing? One thing that we focused on is giving you AI, kind of AI chatbot feedback essentially How is my business doing? Where should I focus?
You know, off the top of my head, if I saw my runway rate, it's this coming january comparative to my revenue, I might have a forecastable you know moment or some sort of analysis where it would give me a recommendation on where I should focus.
Of my time. At least from the finances but um
So quick clarification. Is Signal the um signal the portfolio side view or is that what founders
That's the portfolio side's view. I'm sorry, that's what founders would send to their investors.
Okay.
Yeah, it would give him kind of a high level view.
Perfect. Okay, cool.
Point um because I'm sure all these founders can agree.
Do they want their investors seeing their entire balance sheet at any given time?
Probably not. Most likely not. Do they need to? No.
Should they see maybe their high level numbers Yeah, that's all fine.
Awesome.
Just to see they're on the right track So you guys, yeah, links in there. Feel free to check it out. Again, it's Techstars 50.
Within using the code 50% off on our insights plan For the entire year.
And if you're you know if you're start with a 14-day free trial either way so you guys can check it out. And then if your expenses are under 5K, like slowly you can just try it out for free.
Yeah. That's all I had really had. If you guys had any other questions.
Let me know. Chloe, I don't know if you had any more for me.
Just high level, is everyone good on their taxes?
Good question.
Yes. I'm not seeing signs of life and that's stressing me out as someone who messed up my own taxes.
I mean, that's good. Andrew seems good. Chris.
Okay, this whole session is fueled by my own fear of my personal finances and like needing to make sure that y'all aren't getting in trouble with Delaware like Like I might be.
The IRS. Yeah. You'll be all right.
I had to get checked. I didn't own checks until this tax season.
Yeah, time. There you go.
I had to like, it was brutal. Anyways.
We all good. Any… Final questions?
Easy. All right. Happy Monday. Thanks, Drew.
Cool. Yeah. Yeah, guys. Happy Monday. We'll probably do some more events in the Bay. We're doing stuff around Chloe. I'm sure I'll see you guys around.
Yeah, happy Monday. If you do have any questions, let me know. I'm drew at puzzle.io.
Follow us on LinkedIn. Check the link. Yeah, let me know.
Awesome. Appreciate it. Have a good one.
Thanks, Drew. Yeah.